---
page_title: "jinja_template Data Source - terraform-provider-jinja"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The jinja_template data source renders a jinja template with a given template with possible JSON schema validation of the context
---

# jinja_template (Data Source)


The jinja_template data source renders a jinja template with a given template with possible JSON schema validation of the context

## Example

```terraform
data "jinja_template" "render" {
  context {
    type = "yaml"
    data = "${path.module}/src/context.yaml"
  }
  source {
    template  = file("${path.module}/src/template.j2")
    directory = "${path.module}/src"
  }
  validation = {
    "schema" = "${path.module}/src/schema.json"
  }
  strict_undefined  = false
  left_strip_blocks = false
  trim_blocks       = false
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `context` (Block List) Context to use while rendering the template. If multiple are passed, they are merged in order with overriding (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--context))
- `delimiters` (Block List, Max: 1) Custom delimiters for the jinja engine (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--delimiters))
- `footer` (String, Deprecated) Footer to add at the bottom of the template before rendering. Deprecated in favor of the `source` block
- `header` (String, Deprecated) Header to add at the top of the template before rendering. Deprecated in favor of the `source` block
- `left_strip_blocks` (Boolean) If this is set to `true` leading spaces and tabs are stripped from the start of a line to a block
- `source` (Block List, Max: 1) Source template to use for rendering (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--source))
- `strict_undefined` (Boolean) Toggle to fail rendering on missing attribute/item
- `template` (String, Deprecated) Inlined or path to the jinja template to render. If the template is passed inlined, any filesystem calls such as using the `include` statement or the `fileset` filter won't work as expected. Deprecated in favor of the `source` block
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `trim_blocks` (Boolean) If this is set to `true` the first newline after a block is removed (block, not variable tag!)
- `validation` (Map of String) Map of JSON schemas to validate against the context. Schemas are tested sequentially in lexicographic order of this map's keys

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `merged_context` (String) JSON encoded representation of the merged context that has been applied to the template
- `result` (String) Rendered template with the given context

<a id="nestedblock--context"></a>
### Nested Schema for `context`

Required:

- `data` (String) A string holding the serialized context
- `type` (String) Type of parsing (one of: yaml, json, toml) to perform on the given string


<a id="nestedblock--delimiters"></a>
### Nested Schema for `delimiters`

Optional:

- `block_end` (String)
- `block_start` (String)
- `comment_end` (String)
- `comment_start` (String)
- `variable_end` (String)
- `variable_start` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--source"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source`

Required:

- `directory` (String) Path to the directory to use as the root starting point. If the template is an external file, then the `dirname(...)` function can be used to get the path to the template's directory. Otherwise, just using `path.module` is usually a good idea
- `template` (String) Template to render. If required to load an external file, then the `file(...)` function can be used to retrieve the file's content


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `read` (String)
